hey guys it's John from AR TV it's time
for a review of the debut full-length
record from hardcore slash melodic
hardcore slash hardcore punk outfit
Beartooth signed a red bull records and
formed by Caleb Shomo formerly of attack
attack back in 2012 this is one of the
more ambitious projects that I've heard
in quite a while and a year where very
few releases have actually caught my
high Beartooth has put a fish hook
through my lip dragony ear first in the
musical oblivion to say that this album
impressed me is a complete
understatement never in my life have I
enjoyed a hardcore slash melodic
hardcore beliefs this much through and
through from my first listen to the
opening track the lines I knew I had
discovered something special the moment
the Caleb's vocals pierced through the
chorus with his staggering exaggerated
up-and-down screamed pronunciation of
the word lines I was reeling with
anticipation what's to come on this
record I couldn't get enough each song
was impressing me
disgusting C's show Mo's rage boiling
over in the best way possible
battling personal demons all the way
through it's an amazing look into a
tortured souls of battered mind I think
it's truly commendable that the man
isn't afraid to put himself out there on
an emotional and spiritual level it's no
secret that Shomo allows his frustration
with life and God to bleed into his
music I'm not gonna lie the track I have
a problem gets me I shed a tear the
first time that I actually truly heard
the lyrics to this track almost the
entire song is this earnest plea and
scream as the man reveals he essentially
almost killed himself by drinking lime
turning his back on God out of shame he
screams I found my vice it lives in a
bottle and it won't stick tell me I
almost don't have words for how good
this song truly is truly a contender for
the best song on this masterpiece of a
record and easily the best and most
honest lyrically it's one of the most
passionately sung and screamed songs
that I've heard in ages and
is why this album succeeds from start to
finish
I believe him that is the key I
genuinely believe and can feel what
caleb is conveying with this batch of
songs mesmerizing and brutal guitar
riffs awesome drum patterns and bass
lines all sync up amazingly well
throughout disgusting the best part of
this show Moe plays all of the
instruments himself that's right all the
other members of the band are just live
members he recorded all of this himself
and if that doesn't blow your mind I
don't know what will what stands out to
me the most on this record is Caleb's
voice the noise among the wreckage and
chaos and I'm not saying chaos and a bad
way
it's just that music really if you think
about it is chaos it's a bunch of random
notes and sounds to come together to
make a one coherent piece of music it's
really kind of shocking to think about
especially when someone does it this
well the album even takes on subjects
like bullying and abuse in the most
commendable way possible lead single
beaten in lips is one of the best get up
and make something change anthems that
I've heard written in such a way that
you actually want to get up and fight
with the man the guitars are relentless
on this track opening with these furious
riffs that lead into Caleb screamed
vocals something I noticed about the
track though it sounds a lot like Billy
Talent in the chorus am I crazy other
hardcore and metalcore acts take note
here this is how you make an
inspirational song for the underdogs
I get so fucking pumped after hearing
this song I just want to go out and like
destroy evil or something like that if
you're looking for some of the more
melodic hardcore tracks on the record I
would definitely recommend checking out
the tracks in-between and one more in
between is another song definitely worth
noting as it sees a glimpse of hope in
this dark life of his the chorus sounds
absolutely beautiful as Shomo sings up
on the mountain I see down below it's
easy to lose yourself I know the track
is one of the more clean-cut vocally but
that doesn't necessarily take away from
its power and potency actually it
doesn't whatsoever there are still
screamed vocals in the second
and overall it simply inspires me
knowing that there are highs and lows in
life but we'll all get through the
darkness if we can just see the good and
beauty in everyday life Shomo questions
his own self-worth on the powerhouse
that is one more I want to know if my
soul is worth saving he screams most
likely a cry out to God as he feels
worthless after his battles with
depression and alcoholism I also can
overlook the menacing track ignorance is
bliss it's an in venom spin on the
common saying and it sees shoma once
again battling against none other than
himself it's so refreshing to just hear
a musician that can be real on a record
we're not hearing about his swagger
we're not hearing about his riches and
how many girls he can fuck we're hearing
about his real personal struggles and
it's just so good to be hearing
something so honest one of the boldest
reminders on the entire record comes on
the short track and dead as he says sin
does not define us sin will never
control us relapsing seas show most
screaming at himself the whole song
seems to be a conversation between
himself his mind and his own personal
demons it's easily one of my favorites
with some of the most memorable screamed
vocals and guitars on disgusting me and
my own head pretty much explains how
Shomo has destroyed himself from within
at this point I find myself truly
feeling bad of a guy I had no idea how
much of a struggle he was really going
through after attack attack and up until
an animal I really hope that he can stay
sober and continue making awesome music
like this if I had to single out a
weaker track it would be keep your
American Dream it's by no means a bad
song but it does feel a little bit more
Felicia Shane when it comes to musical
stylings and vocal presentation although
I will say that the breakdown alone
pretty much justifies this track and
making the record there are many tracks
on the album that mentioned God
including I have a problem one more dead
as well as sick and disgusting the
latter of those sees this guy in total
emotional turmoil we're calling the
times that he asked God to take his own
life it truly is the best show of
musicians
that I've heard in about the year or so
aka the release of my favorite album of
something about June release dates huh
this blows every other release I've
heard so far this year out of the water
by far the best thing I've heard this
year and it's definitely in my top five
releases of the past few years
don't be turned off by the album just
because I said God or Jesus or just
because he does a few times you don't
necessarily have to be a Christian or
even be spiritual to love this release
everybody has their own personal demons
it's a glowing 5 out of 5 for me the
first perfect score I've awarded to any
album this year you might recall that I
revoked the perfect score for the
Bayside release cult that one was handed
out in haste and I explained it later on
so this is truly the first perfect score
I've awarded in 2014 the first perfect
score of the year can you believe it I'm
truly stoked I'm happy to be so in love
with the record let me know what you
guys are thinking about the Beartooth
debut disgusting in the comments section
down below don't forget to hit the like
button for my first perfect score of the
year a my 300 and second video you know
that's important - come on 302 that's
got to be a important number somewhere
thanks for watching the video guys make
sure to check out my latest review that
ones right here and of course you can
see my other videos on my second channel
over here track reviews movie reviews
that sort of thing are all over there
I'm gonna do that x-men review
eventually of course I've got Jack
White's review on the way slaves
passenger just to name a few of the
releases that are on the way for me here
at AR TV thanks again for watching and I
will see you very soon